# Exercise 01

## Part A

Develop a class called `ArrayUtilsImp` that
implements the interface `org.pg4200.ex01.ArrayUtils` in
the `exercises` module.

Create a concrete test class called `ArrayUtilsImpTest` that
does extend the abstract test class `org.pg4200.ex01.ArrayUtilsTestTemplate`.
Recall that test classes are under the `src/test/java` folder.
If your implementation of `ArrayUtilsImp` is correct,
then all tests should pass.


## Part B

Using `org.pg4200.les01.array.MyArrayStringContainer` as a
reference, implement a class called  `MyArrayIntegerContainer`
which rather works on `Integer` objects instead of `String`.
Such class does not need to implement any interface.

Using `org.pg4200.les01.MyStringContainerWithIndexTestTemplate`
as a reference, develop a concrete (not abstract) test class
called `MyArrayIntegerContainerTest`, with the same kind
of tests, buf for `MyArrayIntegerContainer`. 
Here you need to use `Integer` inputs  instead of `String`. 
All tests should pass.


## Part C

Consider the class `org.pg4200.ex01.TriangleClassification`.
Write a test class called `TriangleClassificationTest` for it.
You need to write enough tests to achieve 100% line coverage.

Note: by default in IntelliJ, when running tests with 
`Run 'X' with Coverage`, coverage is calculated only on the
same package. If your tests are not in `org.pg4200.ex01`,
then you need to set the `Edit Configurations`, in particular
the options in the `Code Coverage` tab.

 
## Part D

Study the source code of `MyListStringContainer`.
Once you think you fully understand it, write its implementation
on paper (e.g., using a pen), without looking at the source code.
Once done, compare what you wrote with the actual implementation.   
 

## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol01` package.

