# Exercise 02

The goal of this exercise is to give you experience in implementing the data structures 
mentioned in the lecture and allow a better understanding of such structures. In addition
The exercise shows how, in addition to the basic functionality, some data structures may implement
functionality that is specific to them.

Allowing an ArrayList, for example, to be resizable (see Part A) allows for such structures to be 
more useful and usable. 

As an overview:
- you will implement your code in a class that extends (in this case) `MyArrayList`. This means that
you will have to override the appropriate methods (in this case `add(int index, T value)`) in a way that
addresses the requirements in the task.
- the task has some tests associated with it, that test said functionality. These tests assume that you 
implemented the functionality correctly and in the appropriate method.
- To access the tests, you will have to write an appropriate test class that extends (in this case) the 
class `MyListTestTemplate`. This includes a number of tests that assess the behaviours of lists. 
- there is an override you need to do in your test class, in order to ensure the correct behaviour.
- NOTE that all the parts that ask you to create implementations of list also use the same test template:
`MyListTestTemplate`. The different parts will require different implementations and will have the appropriate
details. But they all have to fulfill the basic functionality of a List, and that is what the test 
template assesses.

## Part A

Write a class called `MyArrayListResizable` that extends `MyArrayList`.

Override the method `add(int index, T value)` in a way that, if the internal array is full,
then such array should be doubled in size before inserting the new element.

Write a test class called `MyArrayListResizableTest` that extends `MyListTestTemplate`,
where the instance of `MyArrayListResizable` is initialized with capacity of 1 
(i.e., the size for the internal array).
If your implementation of `MyArrayListResizable#add` is correct, then all tests should pass.



## Part B

Using `MyLinkedList` as a starting point, create a new class called `MyBidirectionalLinkedList`.
Here, besides a `next` link, each node also has a `previous` link pointing to the previous node in
the list. All insert/delete operations need to properly handle and update such `previous` links.
When inserting/deleting/getting a node at position `index`, the algorithm should decide if rather start
the search from `head` using `next` links, or from `tail` using the `previous` links.
If `index <= size()/2`, it makes sense to start from `head`.
On the other hand, when `index > size()/2` it would be more efficient to start from `tail`.

Write a `MyBidirectionalLinkedListTest` that extends `MyListTestTemplate`.
If your implementation is correct, all tests should pass.
 
 
## Part C

Write a new class `MyMiddleBidirectionalLinkedList` that extends `MyList`, using `MyBidirectionalLinkedList` as starting point.
However, besides having a link to the `head` and the `tail` of the list, you need to have a 3rd link, pointing to the `middle` of the list.
When you need to access an element (e.g., with a get), then you need to minimize the number of nodes to traverse.
For example, assume a list with 100 elements, and you need to delete the element at position 40.
Then, the most efficient way would be to start from the `middle` link, and go backwards following the previous links till position 40.
On the other hand, if accessing at position 20, it would be more efficient to start from head and follow the next links.
In other words, all indices in the range 25%-75% of the size of the list should be accessed starting from the `middle` link.

Pay particular attention at the fact that, at each `delete` and `add` operation, the value of `middle` will likely need to be updated.
Note: in case of list with an even number of elements, the middle could have 2 values, choose the lower.
For example: `length=1` and `length=2` would have middle at position `0`, whereas `length=3` and `length=4` would have it at position `1`, `length=5` at `2`, and so on.

Write a `MyMiddleBidirectionalLinkedListTest` that extends `MyListTestTemplate`.
If your implementation is correct, all tests should pass.
 
## Part D

Write a class called `MyRingArrayQueue` that implements `MyQueue`.
Internally, it should be similar to the implementation of `MyQueueArray`,
but with a fundamental performance improvement.
When by adding many elements the `tail` index reaches the end of the internal array,
**instead of** shifting elements to the left or copying over to a new larger array,
the `tail` should start back from `0`, unless of course `head==0`.

The idea is to reuse the empty spaces before `head` when `head>0`.
Note, when `head==0`, or when `tail` increases so much that it reaches `head`, then it would
mean that the array is completely full, and you need to copy over to a new internal array.

Write a `MyRingArrayQueueTest` that extends `MyQueueTestTemplate`.
If your implementation is correct, all tests should pass.
Run the tests with code coverage enabled, and verify that all of the instructions in your
code are covered. If not, add new tests to `MyRingArrayQueueTest`.



## Part E

Study the source code of `MyLinkedList`, `MyStackLinkedList` and `MyQueueArray`.
Once you think you fully understand them, write their implementation
on paper (e.g., using a pen), without looking at the source code.
Once done, compare what you wrote with the actual implementations.   
 
## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol02` package.
