# Exercise 03

## Part A

Write a class called `OptimizedBubbleSort` with the following method:

`public <T> int sort(T[] array, Comparator<T> comparator, boolean optimized)`

The method should sort the input array based on a given `Comparator`.
The method should return the number of times the  method `Comparator#compare` is called.

If `optimized` is `true`, then instead of a naive bubble sort, you should run a better version.
For example, one fact that can be exploited is that, if the last swap is done at position `i`, then 
all elements after `i` are necessarily sorted. 
So, in the next iteration, you do not need to check elements after `i`.
 
 
Write a class called `OptimizedBubbleSortTest` in which you test your implementation.
You need at least one test with the following input array `["c", "b", "a", "d", "e", "f"]`.
On such array, you need to verify that your optimized bubble sort version should do less than
half the comparisons than a non-optimized version.
Note: be careful to do not call sorting twice on the same array, but rather create a new one. 
Add enough unit tests until your reach 100% statement coverage.  


## Part B

Consider the class `org.pg4200.ex03.GameUser`.
Write a class called `GameUserComparator` that does 
implement `Comparator<GameUser>`.
A `GameUser` is "larger" if it has more points.
If points are the same, should consider alphabetic sorting
based on the user id. 

Add a new test in `OptimizedBubbleSortTest` in which you 
sort an array of `GameUser` using `GameUserComparator`.

## Part C

Develop a class called `SortCheckerImp` and that implements 
the interface `org.pg4200.ex03.SortChecker`.
Develop a test class called `SortCheckerImpTest` that
does extend `org.pg4200.ex03.SortCheckerTestTemplate`,
in which you test your `SortCheckerImp` implementation.
If it is correct, all tests should pass.

## Part D

Study the source code of `BubbleSort`.
Once you think you fully understand it, write its implementation
on paper (e.g., using a pen), without looking at the source code.
Once done, compare what you wrote with the actual implementation. 



## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol03` package.
