# Exercise 04


## Part A

Consider the Fibonacci number defined as `f(n) = f(n-2) + f(n-1)`,
where `f(0)=0`, and `f(1)=1`.
Extend the interface `org.pg4200.ex04.Fibonacci` by providing a recursive implementation.

Develop a test class called `FibonacciImplTest` that
does extend `org.pg4200.ex04.FibonacciTestTemplate`,
in which you test your `FibonacciImpl` implementation.
If it is correct, all but 1 test should pass.
Even if the implementation is correct, 1 test will run "forever" without a stack overflow,
due to the exponential complexity of a naive recursive version of Fibonacci.

## Part B

A naive recursive version of Fibonacci is extremely inefficient, as it does an exponential number
of function calls.
When for example we compute `f(100)`, we need to compute `f(98)` and `f(99)`.
Once we are done with `f(98)`, and we start to compute `f(99)`, then `f(99) = f(97) + f(98)`,
in which we have to recompute `f(98)`. 
Unfortunately, this problem happens an exponential number of times.

To solve this issue, we are going to use a technique called _memoization_.
Create a new version called  `FibonacciImplMemoized`, in which internally it keeps track of an
array `x` of values (e.g., `x.length=100`).
Each time we compute `f(n)` for the first time, we will store its result in `x`, i.e., `x[n]=f(n)`.
Each time we ask for `f(n)`, we check first if the value was already computed and stored in `x`.
In such case, we make no recursive call, and rather directly return `x[n]`.

Develop a test class called `FibonacciImplMemoizedTest` that
does extend `org.pg4200.ex04.FibonacciTestTemplate`,
in which you test your `FibonacciImplMemoized` implementation.
If it is correct, all tests should pass.

## Part C

Write a class `MixedSort` that extends `MySort`. It should implement a Merge Sort algorithm.
However, when recursively it arrives to sort a sub-section of the array with size less than
a certain threshold, eg `high - low < bubbleLimit` where `bubbleLimit` can be for example `4`,
then it should rather use a Bubble Sort to sort that subsection of the array.

Explain what might be the *possible* benefits of doing something like this.

Write a test class that extends `SortTestTemplate` to test if your `MixedSort` implementation is correct.


## Part D

Study the source code of `MergeSort` and `QuickSort`.
Once you think you fully understand them, write their implementation
on paper (e.g., using a pen), without looking at the source code.
Once done, compare what you wrote with the actual implementations. 

## Part E

Consider the following starting point for a Triangle Classification class:

```
public class TriangleClassification {

    public enum Classification {NOT_A_TRIANGLE, ISOSCELES, SCALENE, EQUILATERAL}

    public static Classification classify(int a, int b, int c) {
        return null;
    }
}
```

Without looking at the code of `TriangleClassification` from Exercise 01,
implement such function using TDD.
In particular, when doing TDD, use/write the following tests (each one should
be in its own `@Test` function), in sequence, one at a time:

* a negative `a<0` should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* a negative `b<0` should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* a negative `c<0` should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* a zero `a==0` should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* a zero `b==0` should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* a zero `c==0` should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* (-1,-1,-1), ie all -1s, should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* (0,0,0), ie all 0s, should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* (1,1,1), ie all 1s, should result in `EQUILATERAL`
* all edges being `Integer.MAX_VALUE`, ie (MAX,MAX,MAX), should result in `EQUILATERAL`
* (1,2,2) should result in `ISOSCELES`
* (2,1,2) should result in `ISOSCELES`
* (2,2,1) should result in `ISOSCELES`
* (5,2,2), ie too large `a`, should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* (2,5,2), ie too large `b`, should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* (2,2,5), ie too large `c`, should result in `NOT_A_TRIANGLE`
* (MAX-1,MAX,MAX) should result in `ISOSCELES`
* (MAX,MAX-1,MAX) should result in `ISOSCELES`
* (MAX,MAX,MAX-1) should result in `ISOSCELES`
* (2,3,4) should result in `SCALENE`
* (MAX,MAX-1,MAX-2) should result in `SCALENE`


## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol04` package.