# Exercise 05


## Part A

Write a class called `BinaryTreeLeftMaxDelete` that does extend `MyMapBinarySearchTree`.
In such class, override the method:

```
protected TreeNode delete(K key, TreeNode subtreeRoot)
```

When a node with two children needs to be deleted, instead of replacing it with the min
value from the right-subtree, do use the max value from the left-subtree.

Write a test class `BinaryTreeLeftMaxDeleteTest` that extends `MyMapBinarySearchTreeTest`,
in which you override the method `getTreeInstance()` to use an instance of
`BinaryTreeLeftMaxDelete`.
If your implementation is correct, all tests should pass. 

## Part B

Write a class called `TernaryTreeMap` that implements `MyMapTreeBased`.
This class should be similar to `MyMapBinarySearchTree`, but with a major difference:
each node contains two elements (`first` and `second`), instead of just one, and three children
(`left`, `middle` and `right`).
Their ordering relation should be `left < first < middle < second < right`.

Write a test class called `TernaryTreeMapTest` that extends `MyMapTestTemplate`.
If your implementation of `TernaryTreeMap` is correct, then all tests should pass.
Similarly to `MyMapBinaryTreeTest`,
add these further new tests:
* Add 2 distinct elements in a way that the tree depth is only 1 (ie, best case for 2 insertions).
* Add 3 distinct elements in a way that the tree depth is 3 (ie, worst case for 3 insertions).
* Add 8 distinct elements in a way that the tree depth is only 2 (ie, best case for 8 insertions).

## Part C

Study the source code of `MyMapBinarySearchTree`.
Once you think you fully understand it, write its implementation
on paper (e.g., using a pen), without looking at the source code.
Once done, compare what you wrote with the actual implementation. 


## Part D

Write a class called `DrawRedBlackTreeMap` that extends `MyMapRedBlackTree`.
You need to provide a new method `public void draw()` that can draw the tree on the 
standard output.
For each node, you should print the key, not the value.
Red nodes should be within `()`, whereas black nodes in `[]`.
Following is an example of a printed tree with 5 nodes:

             [5]
            /   \
           /     \
        (3)       [6]
       /   \         
    [2]    [4]   
  

When you are implementing the `draw()` function, you can make the following assumptions:
* keys are printed with just 1 char (eg, digits from 0 to 9)
* the depth of the tree will be at most 3 (as in the above example)

In other words, you do not need to write a function that can draw any kind of tree, but
just the ones within those constrains (which will make the implementation of `draw()` much
easier).

Write a `main` method in which you instantiate such tree, and add one element at a time,
 in an order in which these shapes are obtained:
 
    1) [?]
    
    
    2)    [?]
         /    
       (?)
       
    
    3)   [?]
        /   \
      [?]   [?]   
   
    
    4)      [?]
           /   \
          /     \
       [?]       [?]
                /   
              (?)   

    5)         [?]
              /   \
             /     \
          (?)       [?]
         /   \         
      [?]    [?]       
  

Note: in the above printed output I replace the keys with a `?` placeholder.
It is your job to find the right 5 values for which, once inserted, you go
through those tree shapes, until the final one.

## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol05` package.