# Exercise 06

## Part A

Consider the classes in the package `org.pg4200.ex06`.
Both `Author` and `Book` are mutable classes.
You need to implement *immutable* versions.
In particular, write a class `ImmutableAuthorImp` that implements `ImmutableAuthor`,
and `ImmutableBookImp` that implements `ImmutableBook`.

Write a test class called `ImmutableBookAndAuthorTest` that extends  
`ImmutableBookAndAuthorTestTemplate`.
If your implementations of `ImmutableAuthorImp` and `ImmutableBookImp`
are correct, then all tests should pass.

Note: you will likely need to use `Collections.unmodifiableList()` to create
an immutable list. 


## Part B

Implement a class called `HashMapLinearProbe` that implements `MyHashMap`.
Here, the data is stored in the following data structure, ie a single array:

`private Entry[] data = (Entry[]) Array.newInstance(Entry.class, M);`

When a new entry (ie a pair key/value) is added to the map, the position in the
`data` array will be based on the hash value of the key (same way as in `MyHashMapWithLists`).
However, the handling of conflicts (ie two different keys ending up in the same position)
is done differently.
If a position `i` is already occupied, look at `i+1`, and so on, until you find a free space.
If you reach the end of the array, start back from the beginning (ie position `i==0`).

Note: `put` and `get` should be relatively easy. On the other hand, `delete` is quite tricky.
Consider the case of `[..., a, b, c, ...]`, where `hash(a)` and `hash(b)` are the same
and you need to delete `b`. You cannot simply delete `b` from the array, 
because it might well be that `hash(c)==hash(a)`, and create a hole in the array would
make `c` not reachable any more.
In those cases, the `Entry` object for `b` should still be kept, but just marked as "deleted" 
(eg, by setting the key to `null`),
which would be treated differently from the entry just being `null`.


Write a test class called `HashMapLinearProbeTest` that extends `MyHashMapTestTemplate`.
If your implementation is correct, all tests should pass.

## Part C

Study the source code of `MyHashMapWithLists`.
Once you think you fully understand it, write its implementation
on paper (e.g., using a pen), without looking at the source code.
Once done, compare what you wrote with the actual implementation. 


## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol06` package.