# Exercise 07

## Part A

Consider the class `org.pg4200.ex07.ComputationExampleTraditional`, with
passing test cases in `org.pg4200.ex07.ComputationExampleTraditionalTest`.
You need to implement the same functionality, but by using only `streams` and `lambdas`.
In particular, develop a class called `ComputationExampleStream` that
implements the interface `org.pg4200.ex07.ComputationExample`.
The implemented method should start with `return books.stream()` and
end with `.collect(Collectors.toList());`.
You need to use the right methods in between, like for example 
`filter`, `map`, `flatMap` and `distinct`.

Write a test class `ComputationExampleStreamTest` that extends     
`org.pg4200.ex07.ComputationExampleTestTemplate`.
If your implementation is correct, all tests should pass. 

## Part B

Consider the following interface:

    public interface AnotherStream<T> {
    
        Iterator<T> iterator();
    
        /**
         * Terminal operation. Count number
         * of elements in the stream.
         */
        int count();
    
        /**
         * Filtering operation that only let pass an element
         * once. Ie, if an element in the stream is
         * present more than once, it will be propagated to
         * the stream only once, the first time it is seen.
         */
        AnotherStream<T> distinct();
    
        /**
         * Filtering operation that does ignore and skip
         * the first n elements coming from the stream.
         */
        AnotherStream<T> skip(int n);
    }

Implement a class called `AnotherStreamList` that extends `IterableLinkedList` and
that has the following method:

    public AnotherStream<T> stream()
    
When implementing `AnotherStreamList`, you can reuse code parts from `MyStreamSupport`.
In particular, the `count()` terminal operation has some similarities with `collectToList()`,
in which you will need to implement your own `Consumer` to count the number of elements
that go through the stream.     

Write a test class `AnotherStreamTest` to verify that your implementation of `AnotherStream` is correct.



## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol07` package.