# Exercise 09

One of the key operations that should be understood for a graph is graph
traversal. This is the identification of a path (a group of edges) that connects
two or more nodes/vertices.

This exercise is about creating extend an undirected graph class with the following
functionality: given two nodes in the graph (start and end), find all possible (non
cyclic) paths that connect the two nodes.

In addition, you will implement a test class to assess your implementation. To test
this extension, you will have to create a new undirected graph, with a known
topology (i.e. where you know in advance the nodes and paths) and compare the results
of your implementation with the known correct answer.

## Part A

Create a class `AllPathsGraph` that extends `UndirectedGraph`.
In such class, create a method with the following signature:

    public List<List<V>> findAllPaths(V start, V end)
    
Such method should return all possible paths from `start` to `end` that
are not cyclic.

Write a test class called `AllPathsGraphTest` in which you recreate the graph
shown in class in the slides, ie with edges:

    graph.addEdge("0","X");
    graph.addEdge("X","1");
    graph.addEdge("X","Y");
    graph.addEdge("1","2");
    graph.addEdge("2","Y");
    graph.addEdge("1","3");
    graph.addEdge("3","4");
    graph.addEdge("3","5");
    graph.addEdge("4","5");
    
Call `findAllPaths` on such graph with input `start=X` and `end=5`.
Verify that the method returns 4 paths, with lengths 4, 5, 6 and 7.


## Part B

Study the source code of `UndirectedGraph`.
Once you think you fully understand it, write its implementation
on paper (e.g., using a pen), without looking at the source code.
Once done, compare what you wrote with the actual implementation.

## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol09` package.
