# Exercise 11

## Part A

Implement a class `HuffmanIso` that extends `Huffman`.
In such class, override the methods `writeTrie` and `readTrie`.
When writing/reading a char for a given leaf node, use the charset ISO-8859-1 instead
of the current UTF-16 in `Huffman`.

Note 0: you would lose Unicode support by doing it.

Note 1: for coding/decoding, you can use the method `getBytes` in `String` with
charset `StandardCharsets.ISO_8859_1`.

Write a test class `HuffmanIsoTest` with the following two tests:

* `testCompareOnShortNorwegianSentence` in which you compare both `HuffmanIso` and
  `Huffman` on the text string "Jeg ønsker å få en god karakter i denne eksamenen"
  encoded in UTF-8.
  Verify that `HuffmanIso` can compress it, whereas `Huffman` actually makes it bigger.
  Explain why. 

* `testCompareOnBook` in which you compare both `HuffmanIso` and
  `Huffman` on the text of the Odyssey book encoded in UTF-8.
  Verify that both `HuffmanIso` and `Huffman` do compress it, but their difference
  in compression ratio is minimal (i.e., less than 0.001). 
  Explain why.


## Part B

Consider a string representation for exam grades, in the format of `<id><grade>`, where `id` is a number starting from 0 (can assume __NO MORE__ than 500 students in an exam, and there can be exams with just a couple of students), and grades in the range `A-F`. 
A valid string would be for example:  `0A1F2F3C12F13B14B27A201B497A`.
You can assume that the ids are sorted, but there can be holes in the sequence (e.g., representing students that did not submit).

Write a class `GradeCompressorImp` that implements the given `GradeCompressor` interface. 

You __MUST__ come up with an efficient compression algorithm which is specialized and customized for this problem domain (i.e., do not use either `Huffman` nor `LZW`, but rather use `DnaCompressor` as inspiration). 
For example, if there is just 1 student, you should not use more than 2 bytes in total for the compression. 
If there are 100 students, should not use more than 150 bytes.
In your implementation, you can rely on and use the classes `BitWriter` and `BitReader`.

Write a test class `GradeCompressorTest` that extends the given `GradeCompressorTestTemplate` test suite.
If your implementation of `GradeCompressorImp` is correct, all tests should pass. 


## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol11` package.  